Hello, my name is Tom Wilson and I'm a former University of Arizona professor and I'm now
working for SciTech Institute and we promote STEM education for all grade levels and I've
been privileged enough to be able to participate in this year's event for the space settlement
design competition and I it's my first time doing it I spent a lot of time here at Biosphere 2 in
various capacities leading student trips and so forth but being playing this role and watching
these students most of whom I've met have never participated in an event like this before getting
them out of the classrooms working with strangers kids their age to put something together was for
me something that it's a life-changing experience for them and one of the things over the course of
the past few days that I've really been impressed by is the evolution process not just in terms of
the students with their challenges or their projects taking shape over time but the individuals
themselves you have introverted students coming in here and they don't know how to articulate they
can't share their ideas in a way that is effective and over the course of the past several days
I've seen them gel and coalesce and then you also have you know 20 plus students coming together
and you know most of them are strangers to each other and bonding forming a team
not only that but being able to take some incredibly technical information involving some cutting-edge
science and actually doing the detective work behind it that actually shows that they can talk
the talk but they can also walk the walk and back up what they're saying with some technical
information it just blew me away I could never do stuff like that at their age unless I had an
opportunity like this and so I think this event should be held just open it up in scope have
different venues different times of the year have more participants in this because you will change
people's lives and arguably that high school level age is going to be a most pivotal age for these
students and it can change the course of their academic careers their professional careers and
their personal development so thank you